feat(angular): angular-specific datx related information section (#133)
infinum/frontend-handbook: Angular/Angular guidelines and best practices/DatX data store.md

## Why use DatX

Apart from providing possible single source of truth for any shared data with a basic querying and referencing support, it also provides options to extend any entity with mixins such as [withActions](https://datx.dev/docs/mixins/with-actions), [withMeta](https://datx.dev/docs/mixins/with-meta), [withPatches](https://datx.dev/docs/mixins/with-patches), which enhance entities with usefull utility functions, or network related ones like [withNetwork](https://datx.dev/docs/mixins/with-network), [jsonapi](https://datx.dev/docs/mixins/jsonapi) or, useful in Angular's case, [jsonapiAngular](https://datx.dev/docs/mixins/jsonapi-angular). Especially with [jsonapi](https://datx.dev/docs/mixins/jsonapi) and/or [jsonapiAngular](https://datx.dev/docs/mixins/jsonapi-angular), interacting with [JSONAPI standard](https://jsonapi.org/) compliat backend can be much easier then building requests manually and more managable than building API related code with some sort of generator.

## Dependencies
Let's start by installing all DatX related dependencies we will need:
```

> npm i --save @datx/core @datx/jsonapi @datx/jsonapi-angular mobx

Reviewer: With angular, we usually avoid using mobx since it's an overhead and it doesn't play nice (at least not out of the box) with rxjs.
Because of this, we need the noop.js file you might have noticed in the project (and referenced in angular.json) and the `@datx/core/disable-mobx` import in the app.

Author: Expanded on that with a3f71e1

import { APP_COLLECTION } from '<path-to-token-definition>';
import { Inject, Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { AppCollection } from '<path-to-collection-definition>';

@Injectable()
export class ExampleService {

	constructor(
		@Inject(APP_COLLECTION) protected readonly collection: AppCollection, // app.module.ts scoped instance of AppCollection
  ) {}
}
```

When testing consumers of APP_COLLECTION, just inject the collection under the same token again as with any other dependency:

```ts
// example.service.spec.ts
import { AppCollection } from '<path-to-collection-definition>';
import { APP_COLLECTION } from '<path-to-token-definition>';
import { TestBed } from '@angular/core/testing';
import { ExampleService } from './example.service';

describe('ExampleService', () => {
	let service: ExampleService;

	beforeEach(() => {
		TestBed.configureTestingModule({
			providers: [
				{
					provide: APP_COLLECTION,
					useValue: new AppCollection(), // empty mock collection
				},
			],
		});
		service = TestBed.inject(ExampleService);
	});

	it('should be created', () => {
		expect(service).toBeTruthy();
	});
});
```

## Configuring DatX HTTP calls interception

> By default, DatX uses Fetch API when invoking HTTP calls, but this means that it also bypass **HttpClient** from `@angular/common/http` and therefore any registered interception logic or similar kind of middleware. Luckily there is a way around that, see [official documentation guide](https://datx.dev/docs/jsonapi-angular/base-fetch).

Reviewer: Also, should we also move base fetch into the lib to avoid copy/paste? Was there a reason why we didn't do it like this right away?

Reviewer 2: I think that for now we can leave it in each app separately since we probably won't need it in datx v3 anyway so it will become obsolete?

## Abstracting entity related login into separate service

You might want to abstract away a little of tediousness of working with DatX and/or bound some special logic to a given entity. Since many of the Collection's method require an Entity type as a parameter you can create separate service that will hide this small implementation detail for you. One way to do that would be to extend an abstract class similar to this one:

```ts

> // collection.service.ts

Reviewer: Looking now at this, would it make sense to move it to `@datx/jsonapi-angular` instead of c/p-ing it in every project? @fvoska @kristijanbambir

Reviewer 2: I think that would be OK, but then `@datx/jsonapi-angular` will need to add angular as a dependency (peer + dev?), which it currently does not have (that is kinda nice).

Reviewer: I don't think adding angular as a dependency is a problem, we can use `*` or something equally broad in the peerDependency versions so we don't complicate the Angular updates.

import { IModelConstructor, IRawModel, IType } from '@datx/core';
import { IRequestOptions } from '@datx/jsonapi';
import { IJsonapiModel, Response } from '@datx/jsonapi-angular';
import { Observable } from 'rxjs';
import { map, mapTo } from 'rxjs/operators';
import { AppCollection } from '<path-to-collection-definition>';
import { APP_COLLECTION } from '<path-to-token-definition>';

export abstract class CollectionService<TModel extends IJsonapiModel> {
	protected abstract readonly ctor: IModelConstructor<TModel>;

	constructor(@Inject(APP_COLLECTION) protected readonly collection: AppCollection) {}

	public create(rawModel: IRawModel | Record<string, unknown>): TModel {
		if (rawModel.id === null || rawModel.id === undefined || rawModel.id === '') {
			delete rawModel.id;
		}

		return this.collection.add(rawModel, this.ctor);
	}

	public createAndSave(rawModel: IRawModel | Record<string, unknown>): Observable<TModel> {
		const model = this.create(rawModel);
		return this.save(model);
	}

	public findAll(): Array<TModel> {
		return this.collection.findAll<TModel>(this.ctor);
	}

	public getAllModels(options?: IRequestOptions): Observable<Array<TModel>> {

> 		return this.getMany({

Reviewer: What does this exactly do? Seems to me like it might be something project specific?

Author: Yes, it's optional, wording fits "You might want to abstract away a little of the tediousness of working with DatX and/or bound some special logic to a given entity.". Do you want me to remove it?

Reviewer: No, it can stay, but I'm not sure what does the `getAllModels` represent - I think we're missing a better example if we want to show custom logic for a single entity.

Author: Added comment explaining that in 7dc1020

## Store setup and injection

To create and provide single instance of Collection accross entire Angular app, you can create custom DI token eg. APP_COLLECTION, see [InjectionToken docs](https://angular.io/api/core/InjectionToken) and then provide said token in root module, like so:

```ts
// injection-tokens.ts
import { InjectionToken } from '@angular/core';
import { AppCollection } from '<path-to-collection-definition>';

export const APP_COLLECTION = new InjectionToken<AppCollection>(
  'APP_COLLECTION'
);
```

```ts
// app.module.ts
import { APP_COLLECTION } from '<path-to-token-definition>';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { AppCollection } from '<path-to-collection-definition>';

@NgModule({
	declarations: [AppComponent],
	imports: [
		...
	],
	providers: [
    ...
    {
      provide: APP_COLLECTION,
      useValue: new AppCollection();
    }
    ...
  ],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent],
}
export class AppModule {}
```

> Then whenever you want to work with the collection from within Angular's DI container, you can simply use the token above to inject the collection instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whenever you want to work with the collection from within Angular's DI container, you can simply use the token above to inject the collection instance:
```

```ts
// example.service.ts
import { APP_COLLECTION } from '<path-to-token-definition>';
import { Inject, Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { AppCollection } from '<path-to-collection-definition>';

@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class ExampleService {
  constructor(
    @Inject(APP_COLLECTION) protected readonly collection: AppCollection // app.module.ts scoped instance of AppCollection
  ) {}
}
```

> When testing consumers of APP_COLLECTION, just inject the collection under the same token again as with any other dependency:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When testing consumers of APP_COLLECTION, just inject the collection under the same token again, as with any other dependency:
```

```ts
// example.service.spec.ts
import { AppCollection } from '<path-to-collection-definition>';
import { APP_COLLECTION } from '<path-to-token-definition>';
import { TestBed } from '@angular/core/testing';
import { ExampleService } from './example.service';

describe('ExampleService', () => {
  let service: ExampleService;

  beforeEach(() => {
    TestBed.configureTestingModule({
      providers: [
        {
          provide: APP_COLLECTION,
          useValue: new AppCollection(), // empty mock collection
        },
      ],
    });
    service = TestBed.inject(ExampleService);
  });

  it('should be created', () => {
    expect(service).toBeTruthy();
  });
});
```

## Configuring DatX HTTP calls interception

By default, DatX uses Fetch API when invoking HTTP calls, but this means that it also bypass **HttpClient** from `@angular/common/http` and therefore any registered interception logic or similar kind of middleware. Luckily there is a way around that, see [official documentation guide](https://datx.dev/docs/jsonapi-angular/base-fetch).

## Abstracting entity related login into separate service

> You might want to abstract away a little of the tediousness of working with DatX and/or bound some special logic to a given entity. Since many of the Collection's method require an Entity type as a parameter you can create separate service that will hide this small implementation detail for you. One way to do that would be to extend an abstract class similar to this one:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might want to abstract away a bit of the tediousness of working with DatX and/or bind some special logic to a given entity. Since many of the Collection's methods require an Entity type as a parameter you can create separate service that will hide this small implementation detail for you. One way to do that would be to extend an abstract class similar to this one:
```

      map(({ data }: Response<TModel>) => data)
    );
  }

  public save(model: TModel): Observable<TModel> {
    return model.save().pipe(mapTo(model));
  }

  public removeOne(id: IType): void {
    this.collection.removeOne(this.ctor.type, id);
  }
}
```

And then just extend said class:

```ts
// entity.service.ts
import { Inject, Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { AppCollection } from '<path-to-collection-definition>';
import { APP_COLLECTION } from '<path-to-token-definition>';
import { Entity } from '<path-to-entity-definition>';
import { CollectionService } from '<path-to-collection-service>';

@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class EntityService extends CollectionService<Project> {
  protected readonly ctor = Entity;

  constructor(
    @Inject(APP_COLLECTION) protected readonly collection: AppCollection
  ) {
    super(collection);
  }
}
```

Such service can be injected from within DI container like any other:

```ts
// entity-list.component.ts
@Component({
	...
})
export class EntityListComponent {
	public readonly entities$ = this.entity.getAllModels();

	constructor(private readonly entity: EntityService) {}
}
```

> When testing these abstractions, it advisable to create doubles, which replace any methods that would query service with an implementation which check in memory collection like this example **CollectionTestingService**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When testing these abstractions, it is advisable to create test doubles that replace any methods that would make API calls with an implementation which works with in memory collection, like in this example **CollectionTestingService**:
```
